Hello and welcome to the lesson where we will focus on some
of the machine learning methods for 3D medical imaging.
You might have heard terms such as machine learning, computer vision,
and deep learning, in this lesson or maybe other places by now,
there is a distinction between those.
Here we will specifically talk about a couple of problems in machine learning,
the problems of classification and segmentation.
We will see how the application of those problems to
medical imaging puts a twist to those problems.
We will be doing some of the exercises in this lesson.
In this lesson, the exercises will probably require
the most amount of coding from you if you want to do all of them.
In the exercises, I tried to minimize the dependencies on external libraries,
but in the real world,
you're encouraged to seek out some of the accelerators.
There are plenty of the libraries out there that will help
you preprocess medical images and
optimize some of the algorithms that you
will do like 2D and 3D convolutions, and things like that.
Let's dive in and see what are the lesson objectives here.
In this lesson, we will, as I've mentioned,
look at some of the use cases for 3D medical imaging classification and object detection.
We will look at the methods for feature extraction from 3D medical images.
We will look at methods for two dimensional,
two and half dimensional methods and 3G or
three-dimensional and feature extraction of volumes.
We will talk about the use cases for segmentation problems.
We will look at one of the segmentation algorithms a bit more closer,
the popular units algorithm.
We will do an exercise where you will get a chance to
apply a U-Net algorithm to the medical imaging volume.
We will talk about ground truth for segmentation,
what that means, and what things to keep in mind there.
We will look at some of the common segmentation metrics,
such as Dice and [inaudible] metrics,
and how's [inaudible] distance.